PACT Analysis
What is a PACT Analysis?

    People: relevant user characteristics and skills
    Activities: how is the activity currently carried out? Why? What can be improved?
    Context: the environment of the activity
    Technologies: what tools are used now, and how might new developments be used?

People

    Cognitive characteristics - level and duration of attention, perception, memory, learning abilities, cognitive capabilities, fears, personality characteristics
    Physical characteristics - age differences, physical abilities,
    What motivates, pleases and engages - affect
    Experience & expectations - novice v's expert
    Language
    Culture - For example, in Microsoft Excel there are two buttons, one labeled with a cross and the other a tick. In the US a tick is used for acceptance and the cross rejection, but in Ireland a tick or a cross can be used to show acceptance (e.g. a cross on a ballot paper).
    Special needs - blindness, colour blindness, deafness, wheel chair user
    Homogenous vs heterogeneous user groups - website site users are (normally) heterogeneous - many different types of people; users of a company's intranet are (generally) homogenous
    Discretionary vs committed users - does the user have a choice? if yes, then you need to encourage them to return
    Infrequent vs frequent users - if users are normally infrequent, then interface must be particularly 'helpful' as users will forget how to complete complicated tasks.

Activities

    Goals, tasks and actions
    Regular or unusual, weekly? Yearly? - frequent tasks should be easy to do; infrequent tasks should be easy to learn or remember
    Well-defined or vague
    Continuous or interrupted - user may need to 'find their place' again
    Current task practices
    Individual vs co-operative work
    Multi-tasking vs serial tasks
    Passive vs active,
    Quality vs quantity trade-off
    Data input requirements
    Length of time on tasks - peaks and troughs of working, need for fast response
    Coping with errors - presentation of error messages, how to deal with them, how the system accommodates them, significance of errors, safety critical errors

Context

    Physical environments - noisy, cold, wet, dirty, stressful, uses dangerous materials, sunny
    Social environments - channels of communication, structure,centralisation vs decentralisation, home, mobile, training materials
    Organisational context - relationships with customers, other staff, effect on work practices and job content, role, deskilling, job loss, shift in power
    Circumstances under which activities happen (time, place, pressure of work/time)
    Amount and type of support for activities - tuition, manuals, demonstrations, new knowledge, new skills

Technologies

    Input - Getting data in; getting commands; security
    Output - Characteristics of different displays (e.g. video vs. photographs; speech vs. screen)
    Communications - Between people, between devices, speed, etc. - What is connected to what?
    Size of screen
    GUI or not?
    Sound?
    Networked or stand alone.
    Always on or dial in?
    Real-time systems;
    Safety critical systems;
    Walk-up-and-use systems (e.g. kiosks) / Office systems / Palm pilot application / Web site.
